
We were interested in knowing how our Lora modules perform given the environmental and infrastructural conditions at IIT Gandhinagar. Our aim was also to figure out if our Lora modules perform as per the standards. For this, we performed 3 experiments. 2 of which were outdoor and 1 indoor. These experiments had various constraints that are as follows:

- **Lora Module**: We used the Dragino Lora GPS Hat. We used only the Lora module and disconnected the GPS.
- **Lora PHY**: The experiment was based on Radio communication between Lora and had nothing to do with LoraWAN (or TTN)
- **Parameters**: Our Lora Module works at 868.1Mhz. Beside that, we could only change the Spreading Factor (SF) in the code provided by Dragino. We did not change the Transmit Power and the Bandwidth.
- **Procedure**: We followed the same procedure as listed in Dragino's "[Two RPI use LoRa to transmit](https://wiki.dragino.com/index.php?title=Lora/GPS_HAT#Example3_--_Two_RPI_use_LoRa_to_transmit)" example.

**Outdoor Experiment**
We conducted two experiments outdoor. Both were at the same location. The map and the observed data is mentioned below.

[image lora-1]

>For all these observations, the Receiver was at Spreading Factor of 12 and transmitter was at Spreading Factor of 7. Packet length was 50 Bytes
>
---

**Experiment 1**: The first experiment was performed during the day at 35 degree celcius and Relative Humadity of 38%




|  Distance | RX_RSSI  |  RX_SNR |
|---|---|---|
|  128.3m |  -60dB |  9 |
|  167.7m |  -100dB |  6 |
|  219.3m |  -136db | 2  |
|  267.7m  |  PL | PL  |

---

**Experiment 2**: We repeated the same experiment at a different time of the same day. The temperature was 41 degree celcius and relative humidity of 23%


|  Distance | RX_RSSI  |  RX_SNR |
|---|---|---|
|  128.3m  |  -75dB |  9 |
|  167.7m |  -120dB |  7 |
|  219.3m |  -132db | 2  |
|  267.7m  |  PL | PL  |


---

